
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# epishiny

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
<!-- badges: end -->

**Please note this package is in alpha stage of development and not yet
suitable for use in production as the API is likely to change.**

## Motivation

Interactive web-based data visualisations and dashboards are an
increasingly common method of monitoring infectious disease outbreaks.
Whilst R is now a commonly used tool for analysis and data visualisation
in epidemiology, epidemiologists will often lack the knowledge required
to be able to produce interactive dashboards directly from within their
R workflows, resulting in external propriatory software being used
instead.

`epishiny` aims to bridge this gap by providing simple functions that
produce engaging, feature-rich interactive visualisations and dashboards
from epidemiological data using Râ€™s [`shiny`](https://shiny.posit.co/)
web-framework.

## Installation

You can install the development version of epishiny from GitHub with
either the [pak](https://pak.r-lib.org/) or
[remotes](https://remotes.r-lib.org/) package:

``` r
# install.packages("pak")
pak::pkg_install("epicentre-msf/epishiny", dependencies = TRUE)

# install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("epicentre-msf/epishiny", dependencies = TRUE)
```

## Demo Dashboard

Launch a demo dashboard with examples of every epishiny module with the
`launch_demo_dashboard()` function. The code for this dashboard can be
found in
[inst/examples/demo](https://github.com/epicentre-msf/epishiny/tree/main/inst/examples/demo)
of the package repository.

<img src="man/figures/dashboard.png" width="100%" />

## Tutorials

See the articles below on the package website to get started using
`epishiny` with your data.

- [Getting
  started](https://epicentre-msf.github.io/epishiny/articles/epishiny.html)
- Use cases
  - [Linelist
    data](https://epicentre-msf.github.io/epishiny/articles/linelist_data.html)
  - [Aggregated
    data](https://epicentre-msf.github.io/epishiny/articles/aggregated_data.html)

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome. See the [contributing
article](https://epicentre-msf.github.io/epishiny/articles/contributing.html)
on the package website for details on how to contribute to `epishiny`.
